---
layout: post
title: "Day 020, Dreams"
comments: true
description: ""
keywords: "dummy content"
---

I was doing the most important chore of the day, sleeping, when my mom woke me. Ma, why do you hate me? _*Just Kidding_.  Uh-Huh! Lockdown is a party, I am spending more time with my long lost love, sleep — enjoying my pleasure time. Exploring the dimensions through psychic activities in my brain. Aha! Dreams.

The seamless realm of dreams is a test site for a myriad of thoughts. But do these dandruffs of the brain have any hidden meaning? Moreso, Why did I have that dream? Is it my appetite? Have I had a lovely day? Something peculiar or am I just overthinking? — Who knows? Even after so many technological advanced studies we still don’t have any definite answer but we have some interesting theories. Our daily routines, aspiration, mood, surrounding makes up our dream. We dream to fulfill our wishes. Everything we see in the conscious world has some symbolic meaning which collates to our subconscious desires and anxieties. Dreams let us work through our anxieties in a low-risk environment, helping us practice stressful events and cope with trauma and grief. Dreams edge off the painful experiences to allow for psychological healing.

Dreams can guide us to our unknown parts. It can connect the dots we cannot in conscious life. We dream to rehearse the dangerous and threatening situations — whether you have an exam next day or meeting with the President of the United Nations — these dreams allow you to practice your instincts. Unconstrained by reality and by the rules of conventional logic, our brain creates limitless scenarios that help us grasp the situation we are into.

Do you remember dreams? Neither do I but there are several superstitions regarding them. Psychologists are trying to interpret the meaning of dreams. Mom says Morning dreams often come true. Arab superstition suggests hair falling out or someone cutting hair in dream means you are going to lose money. I never knew about these superstitions, but I ponder how are these dreams interpreted? Probably Psychology, who knows! Dreams are weird. I once had a dream, where I was getting rasgullas for buying clothes — can someone tell me what it means? 

Who cares? Sweet dreams, wet dreams, seldom very scary dreams — I sleep some more to dream some more.



