---
layout: post
title: "Day 037, PS5"
comments: true
description: ""
keywords: "dummy content"
---

Decepticons! The new flagship of Playstation is there. With high collar esque, Sony has unveiled PS5 — a console from an alien world.  Through the innumerous rumours, it's been 7 years since PS4 was launched. 

Sony, on June 11, 2020, during the Sony PS5 reveal event showed off lots of games including Gran Turismo, Spider-Man : Miles Morales, Horizon 2: Forbidden West and many more. But the showstopper was the revelation  of the PS5 console itself. Sony uncovered two variants of PS5 which will be available at launch — PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition. The only difference between the two is that PS5 Digital Edition does not have Blu-ray drive. 

PS5 features a custom eight-core AMD Zen 2 CPU clocked at 3.5 GHz and a custom GPU  based on AMD’s RDNA 2 architecture hardware which promises 10.28 teraflops and 36 compute units clocked at 2.23GHz. To further improve the performance, Sony has replaced the HDD with an 825GB SSD and the 8 GB of DDR3 RAM of PS4 with 16 GB of GDDR6 RAM in PS5. The new PS5 provides a stunning gaming experience. Benchmarking Ray Tracing and super fast refresh rate of 120 Hz - the new iconic PS5 gives the user an exhilarating gaming experience. With an 8K Output support, Sony has truly created a futuristic machine.

Sony, alongside PS5, introduced the DualSense game controller. It provides haptic feedback and adaptive triggers for an immersive gaming experience. The angle of hand trigger is also tweaked and the grip is provided to suffice ergonomics. The controller has an array of in-built microphone for in-game chat. To create epic gameplay, Sony has upgraded their Share button to Create button.

As good as it may sound, PS5’s rival Xbox Series X is equally futuristic. With a custom processor of 12 teraflops, hardware accelerated ray tracing, variable rate shading Xbox might have a slight margin over PS5. Xbox has a black industrial design and vents on top with an underlying green sheet giving it a green halo which makes it look minimal yet modern. Compared to Xbox’s design, the rectangular design of PS5 has curves instead of edges. But PS5 has a very controversial design, the white plastic doesn’t have good respect in the techworld. 

It's a bummer that they both did not reveal its price and release date but we can expect them in Holiday season 2020. I cannot wait to try them out. Oh poor boy! I cannot afford it. If you feel like gifting it, I won’t mind. 

