---
layout: post
title: "Day 043, Cannabis"
comments: true
description: ""
keywords: "dummy content"
--- 

Marijuana, Weed, 420, Ganjha, Kush, Pot, Hemp — whatever you want to call it. There are millions of names for Cannabis and there are millions of people who smoke it everyday. Weed has been an integral part of religion and society of India. For a long time Indians used cannabis freely. Its use is also mentioned in Atharvaveda and Ayurveda.

A verse from Atharvaveda. Book 11, Hymn 8 (or 6), Verse 15:

> पञ्च राज्यानि वीरुधां सोमश्रेष्ठानि ब्रूमः। दर्भो भङ्गो यवः सह ते नो मुञ्चन्त्व् अंहसः॥

Translation:
> To the five kingdoms of the plants which Soma rules as Lord we speak.
Darbha, hemp, barley, mighty power: may these deliver us from woe. [[Source]](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/cannabis-one-sacred-plant-atharva-veda-sindhu-karpakal)

Ayurveda suggests that the medicinal benefits of marijuana can be used as the treatment against psychosis, anxiety, depression. Also, it suggests, taking excessive amounts of marijuana can dry up the body and hence create imbalances. 

Atharvaveda suggests it brings joy. Lord Shiva is often found with a chillum. Most sadhus and pir baba communicate with God via communal smoking session. Bhang thandai is mandatory on Holi and Maha Shivratri as it is the holy offering. For those of you who don't know, Bhang is a strain of Cannabis.  

Delhi alone consumes 38,260 kg of cannabis every year, making it the third largest consumer in the world, after New York and Karachi. Mumbai ranks sixth with a consumption of 32,400 kg weed. If the government legalises it, cannabis has a wide market and will add a part to GDP.

But there is a stigma around weed in our country. This exists because any substance that affects your brain is considered bad, unhealthy, unprofessional. I am not saying we should legalise it right away but to break the chain and leave it open for a healthy discussion. Marijuana became illegal in India in 1985, under the Narcotics and Psychotropic Act. It was because of two reasons 1) Because of India’s commitment to the International Treaty on Narcotics. 2) Pressure by the United States because of their participation in the “war on drugs”. Instead of regulating its supply, like an economic commodity, the government simply cut it. Slowly it became a taboo to even talk about it. In recent years, legalizing weed for medicinal use has caught lots of attention. 

Many people suggest weed causes psychotic effects — which is not entirely correct. Weed has two major compounds TetraHydroCannabinol (THC) which gives the feeling of ‘high’. And CBD or Cannabidiol which is non-psychoactive. This means CBD can cancel out the psychotic effects of THC. In recent times, recreational weed has a high amount of THC and less levels of CBD, which gives you a good ‘high’. But because of this, people who are dealing with depression or anxiety or Post Traumatic Stress Disorder can have severe panic attacks. That’s why you need a good amount of CBD in your weed. CBD also helps in chronic pain and can help in recovery of cancer patients, treat depression, help people with epilepsy and Attention Deficit Disorder as well. 

It is said weed is a ‘gateway drug’. But it is not entirely supported by Science. Instead 9% of the people get addicted to weed compared to 32% and 15% of alcohol and tobacco. 

Being illegal, the peddlers add toxic substances to it. This might actually end up screwing lots of people. And if it’s legalized, the government can actually maintain standards which will not adversely affect the health of people. Government can connect the dots between legalization, commercialization and decriminalization. I think legalizing weed might just do a lot more good than harm. Yes, I am thinking all wrong! Oh, stupid student.

But do you think it should be legalized or not? 

 

