---
layout: post
title: "Day 016, Robin: A quintessential Sidekick"
comments: true
description: "A post about Simulated Universe"
keywords: "dummy content"
---
 
80 years ago, Robin — the most iconic sidekick, was born. Quirky, witty, comical, bold and badass — this  “Boy Wonder” has risked its life innumerous times while entertaining us. While Bruce Wayne has worn Batman’s cape, there have been many characters behind Robin’s Mask.

Richard John “Dick” Grayson or Robin was debuted in Detective Comics #38, 1940. After the cold-blooded murder of Robin’s parents, by Tony Zucco in order to extort money from the circus that employed them, Robin vowed to take revenge. Witnessing this, Bruce Wayne, a wealthy American playboy, philanthropist by day and vigilante by night, took Robin in and channelized his anger. Batman taught him martial art and trained him as his alter ego to become a crime fighting master. Dick's successor Jason Todd shared a similar story but due to his negative reception, he was killed, at the hands of Joker, in DC #408 and during the “A death of the Family” storyline. In 2005, he was resurrected as vengeful Red Hood and became a ruthless antihero who clashed with Batman.

Next, Carrie Kelly appeared in Batman: The Dark Knight Returns (1986) which made her the most popular Robin till time. In 1989, Tim Drake, a teen with excellent hacking and technical skill, was trained to become Robin. Stephanie Brown, daughter of villainous Cluemaster, became the first female Robin in mainstream DC continuity in Robin no. 126, who later assumed the role of Batgirl. Lastly, Damian Wayne, son of Talia and Batman fitted into the mantle of Robin. Trained by League of Assassin, when Damian met his father he started to fight for the cause.

With a colorful attire of red, green and yellow tunic, scaly speedos and pixie boots, Robin was inseparable from Batman forming a dynamic duo.  Moreover, Robin is Batman’s best friend and provided him with a family when no one was there. With endless puns, he lightened the dark theme of the comics.  Dick prevented Batman from going too far and reminded him why he chose to fight. Jason mirrored Batman’s own rage, giving him the glimpse of what could have happened if his principles weren’t crude. Tim mirrored Batman’s need for justice while Stephanie showed him how intense his recklessness is. Damian, his own son, has shown him there is a future to the idea despite how bleak the chances are.

Robins have left a lasting impression on the audience with its comic sense. As the comics grew, each Robin taught Batman something — becoming a perfect sidekick. The legacy of Robin will continue to expand in a positive direction.


