---
layout: post
title: "Day 011, Today: A Lazy Day"
comments: true
description: "A diary blog"
keywords: ""
---

After my [previous post](https://square-1111.github.io/2020/Battle-of-laziest/) on laziness, I decided to take a day off, Because - Why not? And believe me, it was a great day. 

It was 10 o’clock in the morning when I snoozed my alarm for the last time, not because I didn’t want to sleep more but ma had different plans. She loves me so much that she came with a rolling pin (belan). I got overwhelmed by her love and woke up. I was about to step down from the bed, a thought popped “Today is a lazy day, Why don’t you stew in your filth for some more time” and it was a life changing decision. Lazily I picked up my phone and scrolled the devils plunger — Reddit for an hour. Bored! I slept for another hour. Waking up, I gathered some strength to get my laptop which was 3 ft away resting on the table. I consumed some of the weirdest content on YouTube. Finally, I decided to leave the bed after receiving Google Classroom’s notification. Assignment! Uh Huh, I also second it.

Despite my chores, I decided to write my assignment. Wait a minute! Were there any tasks on schedule? Caught me! Nah there weren’t any. I had zero idea about the subject, but who needs it when I have gracious friends around me. With every page I wrote I wandered something bizarre — What if our eyes popped out from the socket abruptly? More ideas provoked as I finished the assignment. Next, I performed the dark art of fat loss and right after it, I had 3 rasgullas. Those rasgullas made me so sleepy that I dozed off for some more time.

Next thing I remember - I woke up for dinner and this made my mom think that I had smoked weed. While watching another episode of FRIENDS for the gazillionth time, I had dinner. Film rolled and I binged episode after episode of FRIENDS. **11:30 PM** and I had not yet decided what to write about. That's when my friend suggested writing about today. Finally, after such a tiring day, I gathered all my courage to post this. 

It has been one really happy day but I might go insane if I follow it more often. Now, if you will please let me snore again.

Good Bye. Peace out.

